# Encryption and Decryption Project
This project is about encryption and decryption. Each part does a different type of encryption or decryption, which I have coded. All parts use the command line, which is explained within each part's README file. 

## Part 1
part1.java will encrypt a text file into a mode that the user picks. When the encryption option is chosen, it will produce an encrypted output that is named by the user or will be generated by the method. When the decryption option 
is chosen, the same will happen, but an input file, key and initialisation vector must be provided. Without these, the decryption will not work. I have edited Erik Costlow's code to work with my application.

## Part 2
part2.java will encrypt a text file using a password inputted by the user. This will encrypt the file and make a key that is 128 bits long. The algorithm used to make the key is PBKDF with Hash MAC SHA256. It will generate
the salt and initialisation vector automatically and write these into the output file before any encryption has been written into the same file. When decrypting, it will derive the key from the salt and initialisation vector 
that is at the start of the input file and also the correct password. If the password is wrong, decryption will fail, otherwise, it will be successful. 

## Part 3
part3.java is a version like part 1, but it makes a report on how fast each mode is to encrypt and decrypt certain lengths of files. There is a table listing the times for each and 
I have written about my findings within the pdf document in part 3.

## Part 4
part4.java is a brute-force tool that I have made to find the correct password to an encrypted file. This will only work if you have the plaintext to go along with the encrypted text. It tries a new password input to decrypt the file
and compares each output to the plaintext file. If the outputs are the same, then the brute force stops, and you have found the correct password. Otherwise, it keeps going till it finds the correct one. The maximum length of the 
password is six characters.
